PRODDOCS-712: Unit tests (#8764)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/data-tests.md

Data tests return a set of failing records. Generic data tests (also known as schema tests) are defined using `test` blocks.

Like almost everything in dbt, data tests are SQL queries. In particular, they are `select` statements that seek to grab "failing" records, ones that disprove your assertion. If you assert that a column is unique in a model, the test query selects for duplicates; if you assert that a column is never null, the test seeks nulls. If the data test returns zero failing rows, it passes, and your assertion has been validated.

There are two ways of defining data tests in dbt:

> - A **singular** data test, in its simplest form, is one where if you can write a SQL query that returns failing rows, you can save that query in a `.sql` file within your [test directory](/reference/project-configs/test-paths). It's now a data test, and it will be executed by the `dbt test` command.

Author: ```suggestion
- A **singular** data test, in its simplest form, is when you write a SQL query that returns failing rows, you can save that query in a `.sql` file within your [test directory](/reference/project-configs/test-paths). It's now a data test, and it will be executed by the `dbt test` command.
```
